Based on the beginner {https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RGOj5yH7evk}[course] by FreeCodeCamp.org. 

* What is Git 

  A free and open source version control system. 

  Version control allows programers to track and manage changes in their 
  projects. 

  Note: git is the software that tracks the changes to your program, while 
  github is an online hosting service that stores remote versions of your 
  projects. 

* Git commands
  - clone: bring a repository that is hosted somewhere like Github into a 
    folder in your lcal machine. 
  - add: track your files and changes in git. 
  -- `git add .`: add all the untracked files to git.
  -- `git add [filename]`: add specific file to be tracked.
  - commit: save your files in git.
  -- `git commit -m [commit message] -m [commit description]`: commit changes 
     with a commit message and a commit description.
  - push: upload git commits to a remote repository like Github.
  - pull: downlod changes from remote repository to your local machine. This is 
    the opposite of push.
  - status: shows the status of all the files in the respository. It will show 
    which files are untracked, staged, and commited.

* Using git on local machine

  First we have to make sure that git is installed in our machine.
  This can be checked with 
  @code bash
  git --version
  @end

  The `.git` folder is the folder that stores all the changes, information and history 
  of our repository. 

* SSH Keys
  In order to push to github we need to connect our remote github account to 
  our local git.
  We need to create an ssh key pair. We copy the public key and store it 
  in our githubs account ssh and gpg keys -> ssh keys -> add new. 
  In this way, when we try to connect to github, our key will be validated.

* Pushing to github

  Terminology: 
  - `origin` : a shorthand name for the remote repository that a project was 
    originally cloned from. More precisely, it is used instead of that original 
    repository's URL - and thereby makes referencing much easier.
  - `master`: this is the name of the branch that we want to push to.

  The command `git push origin master` pushes the changes we have made to the 
  master branch on origin.

* Initiaizing a git repository

  The command `git init` initializes a repository. We will see that by default 
  we will be in the "master" branch. Usually the master branch is the default 
  branch that github creates for all our projects and it is the branch that 
  has the production code.

  After initializing a repository, we can add the files we wish to track by 
  doing `git add .` (to add all the files in the current repository).
  then we can commit these files using 

  `git commit -m "first commit" -m "commit description"`

  If we do `git status` we will see that our changes have been added and 
  commited. What happens if we try to do `git push origin master`?

  We will see we get an error: 
  `fatal: origin does not appear to be a git repository`
  `fatal: Could not read from remote repository`

  This error tells us that the remote repository a.k.a "the origin" for this
  project is not setup. When we create a repository using `git clone` the 
  remote repository is automatically set up to be the URL we cloned from. 
  However, when we create a local repository with `git init`, github has no 
  way of knowing what the remote repository URL is.

  Remember that `origin` is just a shorthand for the URL of the remote repository 
  we want to push changes to.

  So we have to create that connection! 
  First we create an empty repository in our Github account. 

  Then we can do: 
  @code bash
  git remote add origin git@github.com/myusername/myrepositoryname.git
  @end
  Once we do this, by doing:

  `git remove -v`

  We will see all the remote URL that github is using for 
  - Fetching: where it gets the changes from. This means that if someone else 
    does a change to the remote github repository, by doing `git fetch` we will 
    get those changes. Then, if we do `git merge`, we will merge those changes 
    with our local copy. More on this later.
  - Pushing: where it pushes our local changes. Essentially this is where our 
    local changes will be pushed to. 

  If we have done nothing else, the URLs for both fetching and pushing should be 
  the same and we should see some output of the form:
  @code bash
  origin git@github.com/myusername/myrepositoryname.git (fetch)
  origin git@github.com/myusername/myrepositoryname.git (push)
  @end

  Now that our origin is setup, we can use `git push origin master` again 
  and we will see that we have no errors.

  Often, you will see people simply writing `git push`. This is a shorthand 
  for `git push origin master` which becomes available *_only_* after we 
  have set up what is called "the upstream". The upstream is the default place 
  github will use when we dont specify the location. In other words, if the 
  upstream is set to origin, when we do `git push`, it will automatically default 
  to using the origin master.

  To set up the upstream, we can do:

  `git push -u origin master`

  which is equivalent to 

  `git push --set-upstream origin master`

  Which will push to origin master but also set up the upstream so that in 
  the future I can simply write `git push` instead of `git push origin master`.
  Note that it is recommended to get into the habit of specifying the location 
  and branch of where you want to push or pull from.  This is a good practice 
  that will help out clear any doubts in the future.

* Git Branches

  By default, all of our commits are on what is called the `master` branch.
  
  However, we can create other branches! 

  Suppose we create a new "feature branch". What happens? 
  Well, up until the point of creating of the branch, the code on master and 
  the feature branch will be the same. 

  As we make updates to the feature branch, those changes are only seen in 
  the feature branch.
  So if we make changes in the feature branch and commit those changes, and then 
  switch back to the master branch, we wont see the changes we had made
  on the feature branch. Each individual branch only knows about itself, so 
  there is no way for them to know about changes in the other branch.

  We can continue to change the code in the master branch and commit those 
  changes.
  If we switch back to the feature branch, once again, we wont see 
  those changes. 

  This essentially allows us to develop branches independently from one another.

  Why is this useful? Because it allows us to work on other features that may 
  break our main code base without affecting the master branch. In this way, we 
  can work on the feature branch independently until the feature is complete 
  and then we can "merge" our branch into the master branch.


  Lets look at how to create branches in the terminal.

  If we type in a new repository:

  `git branch`

  We see that we only have one branch named `master`. The star before it 
  indicates that we are in that branch.

  To create a new branch, we will use the `git checkout` command. This command 
  is also used to switch between branches. To create a branch called 
  "feature-branch" we use `git checkout` with the `-b` flag:

  `git checkout -b feature-branch`

  After running this command, we will see a message in stdout that tells us 
  that we have switched to a new branch called 'feature-branch'.

  If we type again:

  `git branch`

  We will see that now we have two branches: master and feature-branch, and the 
  star before feature-branch indicates that we are currently on the 
  feature-branch.

  To switch back to the master branch we can type:

  `git checkout master`

  or more generally, to switch to a branch called branchName we type:

  `git checkout branchName`

* Merging Branches

  Suppose that we create and switch to the `feature-branch`. In this branch, 
  we make some changes to some files and we add and commit the changes. 

  If we go back to the `master` branch, we see that those changes are not present.

  How do we merge these changes into the `master` branch? 

  We can do this using `git merge`. However, first we want to see the changes
  we have made. 
  We can do this using the `git diff` command.

  We need to specify the branch we want to compare the current branch to, so
  if we are in `master`, we would write:

  `git diff feature-branch`

  This will show the changes in our terminal.

  Now, to merge these changes, we could use `git merge feature-branch` which 
  would totally work. However, the most common workflow pattern you will see 
  on github is to push the changes on the new branch to github and then making a 
  pull request (PR).

  To do this, we switch to our `feature-branch` and then try to do `git push`.
  As explained before, since we are in a new branch and therefore we have not 
  set up the upstream, we will get an error, which we do.

  Git will complain that the upstream is not set up for this branch and needs 
  to know to what branch to push to. It suggests the following fix:

  `git push -u origin feature-branch`

  This would tell git two things: push to a branch in the origin called 
  `feature-branch` and set the upstream for the branch as the `feature-branch` 
  in the remote repository. 90% of the time, the branch in the remote repository 
  will have the same name as the branch in our local machine so this fix is 
  fine.
  Once we do this, we will see that github will also suggest to create a 
  `pull request`.

  QUESTION: IF THE BRANCH HAS NOT BEEN CREATED IN THE REMOTE WILL THIS CREATE IT?

* Pull Requests

  Pull requests are requests to have our code pulled into another branch. In our 
  case we want our code in the `feature-branch` to be pulled into the `master` 
  branch.

  So we make a PR from the `feature-branch` to the `master` branch. Once 
  we have made PR, anyone can review our code, comment on it, or ask for some 
  changes.
  After we make a PR, we can update our code by making additional commits, 
  and pushing them to the branch. Once the PR is merged, we will generally delete 
  the `feature-branch` and switch back to `master`. If we need to do new changes, 
  we would create a new branch and repeat the procedure.

  After the previous command, if we go on Github, we will see that it will have 
  detected that a new branch has been pushed and it suggests to compare branches 
  and create a pull request.

  If we click, it takes us to a screen which shows us which branches are being  
  compared. 
  We will see a "base" branch and a "compare" branch which will be merged into 
  the base branch (also look at the arrow which makes it clear which branch is 
  being merged into which branch).

  We also see that there is a title message and a description that is used to 
  explain the PR. Once we have filled all the fields in a satisfyig manner, we 
  can click on "create pull request" which will create the PR. 

  This will then take us to a new window which gives details on the pull request 
  that has been created. We will be able to see the conversation, the commits, 
  the checks, and the diff of the files that are being changed.

  Note that if we go on "Files Changed", we can see the diff between our 
  branches. If we look on the side, we will see that there is a small "+" sign 
  that appears when we hover on the changed code. This allows people to add 
  comments/questions to the code that we are changing which is useful when 
  working in groups.

  Whenever comments are added they must be explicitly "resolved" - and we will 
  see a button "resolve conversation" that appears under the comments. If we 
  dont have full permissions on the repository, then all comments must first 
  be resolved before merging the pull request. Otherwise, in this case, since 
  we are the owners of our  repository and we have full powers, we can 
  directly merge the PR.

  Once we merge, the PR is merged and closed and we will see the changes in the 
  master branch. 

  If we go switch to the local master branch, we will see that the changes are 
  not reflected. This is because we have to pull the updated version from Github 
  with a `git pull`.
  Note that if we don't have an upstream setup, git will complain. So we would 
  have to do `git pull -u origin master` to pull from the master branch in 
  origin and also to set the upstream.

  After pulling the changes, we will see the new changes reflected in our local 
  master branch.

  Since we have merged the `feature-branch` branch into the `master` branch, 
  we no longer have any real utility for the `feature-branch`, so we delete 
  it with `git branch -d feature-branch`.


* Merge Conflicts

  In the examples we have talked about so far, we have not considered the possibility 
  of conflicts/collisions. 
  Collisions or conflicts usually happen when multiple people are working on the 
  same project. 
  Sometimes, multiple people will work on the separate branches and the master 
  branch will get updated from different sources. So it is possible for multiple 
  people to change the same files in the same place. In this case, git will 
  not know what to do, and it will ask you to resolve the collision/conflict. 
 
  This means we will manually have to choose which code to keep, change, or 
  delete.

  To illustrate this problem, create a branch called `feature-branch` and modify 
  some file. Commit these changes and then switch back to `master`. Modify the 
  same file in the same place with some other change and commit these changes 
  as well. If we switch back to `feature-branch` and try to `git merge master` 
  to merge the `master` branch into the `feature-branch` we will see that git 
  will ask us to resolve the conflicts.

** Side note:
   Previously, we had mentioned that it is preferred to create a PR and merge 
   rather than do a `git merge`. So when is `git merge` used?

   A typical scenario is when we are working on some feature 
   in a `feature-branch`. In the meantime, the origin master branch gets 
   updated (because other teams are also working on other features and PRs are 
   getting merged). These changes won't be visible in our local master branch 
   because we haven't pulled the changed from origin.

   Since we want eventually want to merge our `feature-branch` as smoothly as 
   possible, we don't want to fall too far behind the origin `master`. So from 
   our local `master` branch, we do a `git pull origin master` to get the latest 
   changes.

   Then, we want to propagate these changes to our local `feature-branch` so we 
   can keep developing while also having the new changes. Therefore, we switch 
   to the `feature-branch` by doing `git checkout feature-branch`. Once there, 
   we do a `git merge master` to merge the local `master` branch (which has the 
   new changes from the `origin master` branch) into our local `feature-branch`.
   This can create some conflicts that we will need to resolve.
   ---

  So how do we fix conflicts? The majority of code editors have some nice 
  git features which allow dealing with conflicts. We will usually see 
  a file which shows the conflicts in different colors. Some useful terminology 
  we might see is in the editor to fix our conflict:

  $ current change 
  The change in the current branch. In our example, since we did 
  `git merge master` from the `feature-branch`, the "current" change 
  corresponds to the change present in the `feature-branch`.

  $ incoming change
  The change in the branch that is being merged. In our example, this 
  would be the change that is present in the `master` branch since this 
  is the "incoming" branch.

  To fix our conflict, we need to delete all non-code "conflict markers" that 
  are added by git and then write the final code we want.
  This will resolve the conflict, however, doing `git status` will show that 
  we need to commit these new changes because we have fixed the conflict.

* Undoing in Git

  What if we made a mistake a mistake? 

  If we added a file that we wish to unstage, we can do `git reset` or 
  `git reset filename`, and this will unstage `filename`.

  What if we want to undo a commit?

  We can use `git reset HEAD~1`. 

** HEAD
   It is important to understand `HEAD`. Every branch in git has a named 
   head (lowercase) which points to the latest commit. By default, every new 
   repository has a `master` head which points to the latest commit in the 
   `master` branch. On the other hand, `HEAD` (uppercase) is an alias for 
   the head in the currently checked-out branch. Whenever we switch branches, 
   the HEAD changes to the latest commit in that branch.

   So with the command `git reset HEAD~1`, we are telling git to reset the 
   `HEAD` (the pointer to the latest commit in the current branch) to 
   one commit before the current `HEAD` (hence the ~1).
   If we want to go back two commits, we would do `git reset HEAD~2` and so 
   forth.

   ---
  Another useful command is `git log branchname` which will show the commit history 
  of `branchname`. If we have checked out a branch, `git log` will show the 
  commit history of the branch currently checked out. If we have not checked 
  out a branch, it will show the commit history of the entire repository.

  When we run `git log` we will a lot of information for each commit. We will 
  see the commit hash, the author of the commit, the time of the commit, and
  the commit message. Furthermore, in front of *some* commit messages, we 
  will see parenthesis such as `(HEAD->master)`, `(origin/master)`, 
  `(feature-branch)` , or a combination of some sort such as 
  `(HEAD->master, origin/master)`. This information tells us: 

  - what commit the `heads` of all branches are pointing to. So 
    `commit some-commit-hash (HEAD->master, origin/master)` tells us that both 
    `master` and `origin/master` are pointing to the commit identified by 
    `some-commit-hash`. 
  - What commit `HEAD` is pointing to. This also tells us what is the currently 
    checked out branch. So a message such as 
    `commit some-commit-hash (HEAD->master, origin/master)` tells us that 
    `HEAD` is pointing to `some-commit-hash` and the currently checked out branch 
    is `master`.

  Since `git log` also shows the commit hash, if we need to undo a lot of 
  commits, instead of counting them and doing `git reset HEAD~#` we can do 
  `git reset commit-hash` to reset to the commit for that specific hash.

  Note that after we do a `git reset`, this _won't_ undo the changes in our 
  code base. In fact, if we open our editor, we will see that our code is 
  unchanged. However, those changes will be "new" to git. In other words, 
  `git reset` only tells git to unstage any changes after the commit we reset 
  to. 

  On the other hand, if we want to undo changes in our code and get back to the 
  same state as the commit, then we need to do a 
  `git reset --hard some-commit-hash`. Be careful when doing this operation as 
  it will delete all the work you have done after the commit identified by 
  `some-commit-hash`.

* Forking
  In the Github interface, you will see that we can "fork" repositories that 
  are not ours. 

  Forking means that we will copy the entire repository (including all the 
  branches) into our own user account which will in turn give us full control 
  and permissions to make changes to that copy. 

  Then, we can clone our fork of the repository, work on it, and update it in 
  the same as we discussed above. 

  Finally, once we have done some updates, we may want to integrate our changes 
  into the original repository. To do this, we go to our forked repository, 
  create a PR, and then select the original repository as the "base repository" 
  (and maybe also select the branch if the repository has multiple of them). 
  Then we select our own forked repository + branch as the "head repositoy" 
  (which is the one we want to merge into the original one).


