____

                        Git Tutorial 

                    Based on: {https://learngitbranching.js.org/}[Learn Git Branching]

____

* Git commits

  A Git commit records a snapshot of tracked files, efficiently storing changes 
  as lightweight deltas rather than copying everything. This allows for quick 
  switching between commits while maintaining a detailed history of changes, 
  aiding collaboration.

  *Whenever we make a commit, git stores the changes (delta). Each commit 
  has a parent commit from which it was based on*

  Associated commands:
  @code
  $ git commit filename
  @end
* Git Branches

  Git branches are a zero-cost pointer to commits. They are useful to organize 
  work coherently.

** Creation

  Branches in Git are lightweight pointers to specific commits. Since there is 
  no storage / memory overhead with making many branches, it's easier to 
  logically divide up your work than have big bbranches.  

  *Since branches are zero-cost: "Branch early and branch often"*

   Associated commands:
   @code bash
   # create a new branch but stay in current branch
   $ git branch branchname

   # switch to branchname 
   $ git switch branchname 
   # or
   $ git checkout branchname

   # create AND switch to branchname
   $ git checkout -b branchname

   # (Advanced) Create local branch that tracks another branch (usually remote)
   $ git branch branchname otherbranchname
  @end
   *note*: `git switch` is a new command that has been introduced since 
   `git checkout` is too overloaded. However, it is still experimental and the 
   syntax may change. It should still be preferred.

** Switching

   By default, git creates a *main* branch for us. We create or switch to any 
   other branches. Whatever branch we are "*on*" will be used as the parent of 
   any new commit.

   We can see what branch we are "*on*" by looking at where the asterisk "*\**" is 
   when we run `git branch`.

   Associated commands:
   @code bash
   # switch to branchname
   $ git switch branchname
   # or
   $ git checkout branchname

   # list local branches
   $ git branch
   # list all branches (including remotes -- more on this later)
   $ git branch -a 
  @end
   *note*: If we make a new commit while we are on a branch, the branch will be 
   moved "up" to point to this new commit.

* Combining Work Together

   We know how to branch, develop some feature, and commit. How do we combine 
   two branches together so that new features can be incorporated?

** Merging

    The first method is known as *merging*. This creates a special commit that 
    takes *two* parent commits and "combines" the work from both. However, if two 
    branches have written different things on the same places, we will encounter
    a "*conflict*". Before merging, all conflicts must be "*resolved*".

    Example: 
    Setting - Two branches *main* and *branchname* each with some unique commits.

    If we are on *main* branch, and we `git merge branchname`, 
    a new commit will be created that has as parents *branchname* and *main*. 
    Then, *main* will be moved to point to this new commit. Now, *main* contains
    all the work of both parents. 
    *note*: now, if we `git checkout branchname` and `git merge main`, *branchname* 
    will simply be moved to point to the merge commit (the same place as *main*).
    This is because *branchname* is a parent of *main*.

    Associated commands:
    @code bash
    # switch to main
    $ git switch main

    # merge branchname into main
    $ git merge branchname
    @end
** Rebasing

    The second way of combining work together from different branches 
   is *rebasing*. Rebasing essentially takes a set of commits, "_*copies*_" 
   them, and plops them down somewhere else. Then, it moves the branch to 
   point to the the newest commit that was copied.

    Pros: 
    - Used to make a nice linear sequence of commits. 
    - Make git logs/history much cleaner.
    Cons: 
    - Changes the history in some way.

    Example: 
    Setting - Two branches *main* and *branchname* each with some unique commits.

   If we are on *branchname* and we `git rebase main`, we  "copy" the work 
    from *branchname* _onto_ *main*, by creating a new commit with *main* as the 
    parent and moving *branchname* to this new commit. If we then 
    `git checkout main` (which is one commit behind *branchname*) and 
    `git rebase branchname`, *main* will be moved to point to the same commit 
    as *branchname* since its an ancestor of *branchname*.

    *_Important Note_*: notice that *merging* is a "into" operation while 
    *rebasing* is an "onto" operation. In other words, if we are on *branchname* 
    and we `git merge main`, we merge *main* _into_ *branchname* and create a commit 
    with two parents. On the other hand, if we `git rebase main`, we rebase 
    *branchname* _onto_ *main* creating a new commit (with a single parent) on top of 
    *main* (and moving *branchname* to point to the new commit).
* Moving Around in Git

  Let's see how to move around our commit tree which represents our project.

** *HEAD*

   *HEAD* is a symbolic name for the currently checked out commit i.e. what 
   commit you're working on top of. 

   If we are on *branchname*, *HEAD* will point to the *branchname*. 
   This is indicated with *HEAD -> branchname* when running `git log`.

   If we make a new commit, the *branchname* is moved "up" to point to the new
   commit and *HEAD* moves with it (since it points to *branchname*). 

*** Detached *HEAD*

   If we check out a commit instead of a branch, *HEAD* will point to that 
   commit. If this happens, we will be in *detached HEAD mode*. 

   An alternative way to explain it, is that *detached HEAD mode* happens 
   when *HEAD* points to a commit rather than a branch.

   *note*: When in *detached HEAD mode* any new commits we make will not update 
   any branch. That means that if we lose reference to the commit hashes, the 
   changes will be lost. To make the changes more permanent, create a branch 
   with `git switch -c branchname`.

   @code bash
   # show all commits
   $ git log 
   # checkout a specific commit by using its hash
   $ git checkout commit-hash
   @end
** Relative Refs

   Specifying hashes can be a bit cumbersome. So git allows "relative" 
   movement from *HEAD* and branches (or specific commits, if you really want).
   - Use *^* to move up one commit at a time. 
    Ex: 
   @code
   # checkout one commit above current HEAD (note HEAD will then move)
   $ git checkout HEAD^
   @end
   *note*: *^* optionally accepts a parameter after it. This is used when we want to 
   go up from a merge commit which has 2 parents. *^* will go to the parent
   directly above the merge (where we merged from), while *^2* will 
   go to other parent (what we merged).

   - Use *~\[num\]* to move up *num* commits.
     Ex:
   @code
   # checkout three commits above branchname (note HEAD will move)
   $ git checkout branchname~3
   @end
*** Chaining 

    We can chain modifiers together in a single command.

    Example: 
    @code bash
    # long form
    git checkout HEAD~; git checkout HEAD^2; git checkout HEAD~2

    # chained form
    git checkout HEAD~^2~2
    @end
* Branch Forcing

  One of the most useful ways to use relative refs is to move branches around. 

  You can directly reassign a branch to a commit with the `-f` option.

  Example:
  @code bash
  # move by force the main branch to three parents behind HEAD
  $ git branch -f main HEAD~3
  @end
  *note*: we can only do this for branches we are _not_ currently in. So if 
  we try to execute the above command while we are on *main*, it will not allow 
  this operation.

  *note 2*: be careful when moving branches around because you can lose parts 
  of your project if you no longer have a way to refer to it (unless you know 
  the commit hash).

* Reversing Changes

  There are two main ways to reverse changes in git: `git reset` and 
  `git revert`. We focus on how the changes are actually reversed rather 
  than the low level aspects.

** *Reset*

   Reset reverses changes by moving a branch reference backwards in time to an 
   older commit. 

   Associated commands:
   @code bash
   # switch to main
   $ git checkout main

   # reset main to one commit before HEAD
   $ git reset HEAD~1
   @end
   Notice, we can achieve the same thing by branch forcing - the difference is 
   that we can be currently checked out on main and do a *reset*.

** *Revert*

   Resetting is good for local branches in our machine. But it doesnt work for 
   remote branches that others are using (more on remote branches later).

   In order to reverse a commited change and _share_ those reversed changes with others, 
   we do a `git revert`.

   The difference is that *revert* will create a new commit that undoes 
   a commit. So the reversion is actually part of the commit history, 
   unlike resetting where it's kind of like the commit never happened.

   We can only revert one commit at a time.

   Associated commands:
   @code bash
   # switch to main
   $ git checkout main

   # revert the last commit (HEAD)
   # effectively, it goes back to one commit before
   $ git revert HEAD
   @end
   *note*: the command above creates a new commit which undoes the HEAD commit. 

   *note 2*: Note that the syntax is `git revert commit-we-want-to-revert` and 
   not `git revert commit-we-want-to-go-back-to`. To revert backwards more 
   than one step, we have to do multiple git reverts, creating a new commit each 
   time (`git revert commit1 commit2 commit3 ...` will do this with one command)

* Moving Work Around

  So far, we have seen committing, branching, and moving around the tree.
  This is good for 90% of tasks. 

  Now we cover the case where we want to move work around to specific places.

** *Cherry Picking*

   Cherry picking allows us to copy a series of commits (in the specified order)
   below *HEAD*. Then *HEAD* (and the branch) is moved to the last commit we 
   copied.

   Syntax:
   @code bash
   # copy commit1, commit2, ... , commitX below HEAD
   # after this operation, HEAD will point to commitX
   $ git cherry-pick commit1 commit2 ... commitX
   @end
   In other words, it is similar to *rebase* but with _into_ semantics, ie you 
   cherry pick commits _into_ *HEAD*. 

   The big advtange of cherry picking over a normal rebase is that you can 
   pick commits across different branches. This "commit" centric view makes 
   it super flexible, easy to understand, and powerful.

** *Interactive Rebase*

   Cherry picking is useful when we know the hashes of the commits. But what if 
   this is not the case? This is where interactive rebasing comes in handy. 

   Interactive rebasing is a *rebase* with the `-i` flag. It opens a UI (in vim)
   where you can reorder, drop, squash, and move commits. 

   Example: 
   If we run `git rebase -i HEAD~4`, this will open a UI which will allow us to 
   rebase our work interactively _onto_ the commit indicated by `HEAD~4`. Since 
   `HEAD~4` is 4 commits behind *HEAD*, we can basically play around with the 
   previous 3 commits from *HEAD*. Of course, as usual, the rebase will create 
   new commits and move *HEAD* to the latest one.

* Mixed Techniques

** Locally Stacked Commits: Debugging Tricks

   Sometimes you want to debug your code so you insert a ton of print/debug
   statements in your code base. These changes should live in their own branches.
   *Remember* branches are zero-cost!

   Once we find the bug, we also create a branch for the solution *bugFix*.
   We would like to bring these changes into *main* without also having the 
   various print/debug statements.

   How can we do this?

   Easy! We just cherry-pick *bugFix* into *main* or do an interactive rebase 
   and drop the debug commits, keeping *bugFix*.

   Associated commands:
  @code bash
  # assume we have checked out main
  $ git cherry-pick bugFix
  # or (assuming we are checked out into bugFix)
  $ git rebase -i main # drop debug commits and keep bugFix
  @end

** Juggling Commits: Useful for changing old work!

   Sometimes we need to slightly change a commit that is far back in history. 
   We could create a new commit, but it's such a small change that it's not 
   worth it. What can we do? 

   If the commit was newest one, we could do a `git commit --amend`, which would 
   allow what we want. But our commit isn't the newest one! Well, we can 
   reorder using an interactive rebase, put the commit that needs amending to 
   the front, amend it, and reorder again using the interactive rebase.

   *Note*: dont forget that each time we do a rebase, we make a copy of the 
   commmits. Amending also changes the hash of the commit (effectively making 
   a new one).

   Associated commands:
   @code bash
   # Assume 
   # --- main
   # |
   # |  -- Commit we want to modify
   # |  |        
   # |  |        -- HEAD
   # |  |        |
   # C4 C3 C2 C1 C0
   #
   $ git rebase -i HEAD~4 # then reorder as: C2, C1, C0, C3
   # or
   $ git rebase -i main # then reorder as: C2, C1, C0, C3
   $ git commit --amend # ammend C3 
   $ git rebase HEAD~4 # then reorder as: C3, C2, C1, C0
   @end

   Pros: 
   - Easy!
   Cons:
   - All the reordering can introduce conflicts.

** Juggling Commits 2: Using Cherry Picking

   An easier solution to avoid reorder conflics is to use cherry-picking. 

   First, we checkout the commit _before_ the commit we want to modify. Then, 
   we cherry-pick the commit we want to modify. We amend it. And then, we 
   cherry-pick all the commits that follow the one we wanted to modify.

   In this way, we follow the original order of committing and avoid 
   any conflicts due to reordering. In practice, this is the best solution.

   Associated commands:
   @code bash
   # Assume
   # --- main
   # |
   # |  -- Commit we want to modify
   # |  |        
   # |  |        -- HEAD
   # |  |        |
   # C4 C3 C2 C1 C0
   #
   $ git checkout main 
   $ git cherry-pick C3 # copy C3 on top of main 
   $ git commit --amend # amend C3
   $ git cherry-pick C2 C1 C0 # copy over rest of commits
   @end
* Tagging

  As you have seen, branches and commits can be easily copied, moved, changed, 
  etc. Often, they are temporary, and should be treated as so. 

  So how can we permanently mark important moments - releases, big merges, etc.
  in our repository?

  The answer is git tags. They are similar to branches in that they point to a 
  commit, but they are *never* moved as new commits are created - unlike 
  branches.

  Associated commands:
  @code bash
  # tag HEAD as v1 -- this creates a tag "v1" at HEAD
  $ git tag v1
  # tag commit CX as v2 -- this creates a tag "v2" at CX
  $ git tag v2 CX
  @end
  *note*: we can checkout a tag, but we will be in *detached HEAD mode*, so we can't 
  commit any new work into the tag!

** Describing

   Since tags serve as strong reference points in our tree, git has a command 
   `git describe` which tells you where you are relative to the closest tag.

   This is useful to get a better sense of where you are in the repository.

   The syntax is: `git describe <ref>` where `<ref>` is anything git can resolve 
   into a commit. If nothing is specified, it will use *HEAD*.

   The ouput is of the form: `<tag>_<numCommits>_g<hash>` where `<tag>` is the 
   closes ancestor tag, `<numCommits>` is how many commits away that tag is, 
   and `g<hash>` is the hash of the commit being described.

   Associated commands:
   @code bash
   # describe HEAD
   $ git describe
   # described branch bugFix
   $ git describe bugFix
   # described commit CY
   $ git describe CY
   @end
* The World Of Remotes

  So far, all we have discusses is relevant to *local* git repositories. As we 
  have seen, it's super easy to play around with your tree.

  However, you will usually need to store your local work in a remote location 
  either for backup or for sharing the work with others.

  Git remotes are just copies of your repository on another computer. 

** Cloning

   The command `git clone repo-url` will create a local copy of the remote 
   repository stored somewhere like Github. Nothing magical.

   However, if we run `git branch -a` to list all branches, we will find a branch 
   named *origin/main*. This type of branch is a /remote/ branch (but they are 
   still local to our system!). These are special branches that reflect the 
   state of the remote repositorie since you last exchanged information with it.

   They also have the special property that if you check them out, you are put 
   in *detached HEAD mode* - you can't work directly on these branches (new 
   commits will not update any branches).
   You should do your work on normal branches and then share your work with the
   remote repository, which will then update the our local remote branch. 

   The naming convention is *<remote name>/<branch name>*. Usually, the main 
   remote is named *origin* which is what git does by default.

   *Note*: We stress again, /remote/ branchs are still local. They reflect the 
   state of /remote/ repositories.

** Fetching

   As mentioned, /remote/ branches are special branches that serve to reflect 
   the state of a remote repository since we last exchanged information with it.

   To update the view of the remote repository, we should do a `git fetch`.
   This will update the /remote/ branches and make them reflect the latest 
   changes in the remote repository that we may not have!

   For example, if the remote repo is two commits ahead of *main*, doing a 
   `git fetch` will update *origin/main* to reflect this, putting it two 
   commits ahead of *main*.

   So, `git fetch` does two things:
   ~ Download commits that the remote has but are not present in our local repo.
   ~ Update where remote branches point.

   It essentially synchronizes our local representation of the remote 
   repository with what is actually in the remote repository.

   `git fetch` does /not/ change anything about our /local/ state though. It will 
   not update the *main* branch or change anything about our file system.

























































