A list of goals that I wish to achieve in 2024. The list can be updated as the 
year keeps advancing. However, the goal is not to remove but to add to the list.
So any removals will be documented with strikethrough lines.

Goals:
- (-) Learn Rust.
-- ( ) Write at least one medium project in Rust.
-- (-) Finish the book
-- ( ) Finish Rust for Rustaceans
-- ( ) Learn about async and futures.
- (-) Learn Haskell.
-- ( ) Write at least one medium project in Haskell.
-- (-) Watch Graham Hutton lessons
--- (-) Functional Programming in Haskell
--- ( ) Advanced Functional Programming in Haskell
-- (-) Read Learn You a Haskell For Greater Good.
- Learn Nix.
-- (x) Read Nix Manual.
-- (-) Read NixOS Manual.
-- (-) Read NixPkgs Manual.
-- (-) Nix Pills.
-- (-) Nix dev.
-- ( ) Make at least one contribution to NixPkgs
-- ( ) Start contributing to nixvim.
- (-) Learn Jax.
-- (-) Finish series on Jax.
-- ( ) Reimplement some papers using jax.
-- ( ) Learn to use Haiku/Flax.
- (-) Learn Docker and Kubernetes.
-- (-) Learn theory.
-- ( ) Learn to create a container for your own application.
-- ( ) Set up a kubernetes cluster for personal services.
- ( ) Learn to set up your own server.
-- ( ) Services: pihole, vpn, jellyfin, cloud, webserver, instance of code completion llm.
- (-) Learn networking.
-- (-) Jeremy IT Lab: CCNA

For AI: 
- ( ) Learn more about transformers.
- ( ) Implement your own pytorch library (Deep Learning Systems Course)
- ( ) Learn more about LLMs
- ( ) Contribute to some popular libraries.
- ( ) Learn about DevOps tools (MLFlow)
- ( ) Find a job? 

* January
** Rust
   - Finished 6 chapters of the book.
** Haskell
   - 3 Lessons of Graham Huttons: Functional Programming in Haskell
   - 4 Chapters of Learn you a Haskell for Greater Good.
** Nix
   - Read Nix Manual.
   - First 6 of Nix Pills
   - One third of Nix Dev
** Learn Jax
   - Watched this video from Aleksa Gordic.
** Learn Docker and Kubernetes
   - Watched this video about Docker and Kubernetes.
   - Watched this video about Kubernetes 
   - Watched this video about Docker.
** Started Deep Learning Systems Course
   -- Completed 4/24 lessons.
** CCNA 
   -- 2 videos from Jeremys IT Lab.

* February




