@document.meta
title: journals_summaries
description: An explanation of Neorg Jounrnal and Summary modules
authors: andres
categories: [
    neorg 
    note-taking
]
created: 2023-10-11T12:42:02+0100
updated: 2023-10-11T13:27:05+0100
version: 1.1.1
@end

In this sections we will talk about *generation*. 

* Metadata 

  Metadata is data that describes our document but is not part of the 
  content. 

** The Manual Way

  The manual way to add metadata is through the following tags:
   /@document.meta 
   /@end
  Inside this tag, we can put anything we want, although there 
  are some things Neorg uses for the summary module.

  - title
  - description 
  - authors
  - categories

   /@document.meta 
   /title: My title
   /description: my description
   /authors: [
   /    me
   /]
   /categories: [
   /    work 
   /    misc
   /]
   /@end

** The Automatic Way
   To generate the metadata automatically, we can use the command 
   `:Neorg inject-metadata`. This will automatically generate a 
   metadata header which we can augment with some additional information. 

   Finally, if we go to our index file, we can use the *core.summary* module 
   of Neorg to generate an index automatically based on this metadata.
   The way to do this is by running the command 
   `:Neorg generate-workspace-summary`. However, we first need to make sure 
   that the cursor is on top of the header under which we want to create 
   the summary/index.

* Journals

  The *core.journal* module allows us to create journal entries. 

  These are stored in a /\/journal/ subfolder that is created in the 
  current workspace we are working in.

  To create a journal, we can simply use the command `:Neorg journal`
  and then select `today`, `yesterday`, or `tomorrow`.

  This will create a journal entry that is aptly named according to the 
  date.






