Links are created by inserting `target` inside curly brackets and 
colons. Clicking the link takes you to it.

* Link targets

  The following things can be used as link /targets/:
  - `* Heading1`: Defines a link to a heading of a specific level.
  - `^ Footnote`: A link to a footnote.
  - `$ Definition`: A link to a definition.
  - `# magic`: The magic symbol is used to match any of the above.
  - `:path:# target`: The target is in another norg file at a given
    path.
  - `:path:`: Another norg file at a given path without specific 
    target.
  - `/path`: A non-norg file at a given path.
  - `https://github.com`: Some URL.
  - `file:///some/path`: Any file, opened via `(xdg-)open`

* How to specify paths

  Any of the paths used in `:path:` or `/path` can be formatted as:
  - `:path/to/norg/file:` relative to the file which contains this link
  - `:/path/from/root:` absolute w.r.t. the entire filesystem 
  - `:~/path/from/user/home:` relative to the user's home directory
    (e.g. `/home/user` on Linux machines)
  - `:../path/to/norg/file:` these paths also understand `../`
  - `:$/path/from/current/workspace:` relative to current workspace root
  - `:$gtd/path/in/gtd/workspace:` relative to the root of the workspace 
    called `gtd`.

* How to specify links

  There are seveal ways to specify links:

** Pure inline links

   A inline link to {*** How to specify links}

   Inline links are case and whitespace insensitive. However, they 
   are punctuation sensitive. 

   Note that if we want to link to headings, we must specify the correct
   number of asterisks. This can be avoided by using the magic 
   character which matches any of the targets types. 

** Custom inline link text

   An inline {*** How to specify links}[link] with custom text is achieved by 
   appending square bracks with the placeholder text after the link.

* Anchors

  Anchors are similar to custom links, however, they can be 
  reused throughout the document. For example, if I wanted to 
  create a link to my github page, I could do something like: 
  {https://github.com/theabm}[my github]. However, if I wanted to 
  repeat it, I would have to retype everything. 

  On the other hand, with anchors, I can just define the anchor 
  *once* /anywhere/ and then resue the same word enclosed by 
  brackets anywhere else! An example:

  A link to [my github].
  Take a look at [my github]{https://github.com/theabm}

  In the first line, we have an *anchor declaration*.
  It requires an *anchor definition*, which is the second line.

* Linking to a location inside another norg file

  Linking to another `norg` file works exactly the same as inline 
  linking except that we must wrap the path in `:` specifier.

  For example this is a link to an {:newnote:}[An external file].

  To link to a location inside another `norg` file, we use the same 
  syntax, and append the location after the second `:` specifier:

  - {:newnote:# Some Heading I Want To Link To}[A location in an external file]

  Link fixing in this case works in the same exact way. 

  To move back to the previous file, we can use the `<Ctrl-o>` key 
  binding.

** Examples

   - {* Norg Syntax} Inline link to a level 1 heading
   - {** Links} Inline link to a level 2 heading
   - {*** Link targets} Inline link to a level 3 heading
   - {**** Pure links} Inline link to a level 4 heading
   - {# What Is Neorg?} Using the magic char. to link
   - {:newnote:}[A link to an external file]
   - {:newnote:# Some Heading I Want To Link To}[A link to a location in an external file]
   - {https://github.com/theabm}[A link to a url]
   - An [anchor]{https://github.com/theabm} link

*** (!) Note

     If we are linking to a type which is marked with to-do modifiers, 
     we omit the parenthesis!
     So if we have some heading with a to-do modifier:

***** (x) Some heading 
      ---
     And we want to link to it, we simply write:
     {*****  Some heading}

** Fixing links

    If a link isn't found, neorg will propose to fix the link. Two options are 
    available:

*** `f` - attempt to fix the link

     This attempts to fix the link with the current target type it has. 

     Therefore, if it doesnt find a link to a level one heading, it will look 
     through all level one headings and find the best match. 

     However, if we made a mistake and specified the wrong type, this will not 
     successfully fix the mistake. 

*** `F` - attempt to fix the link (loose fuzzing)

     This will look for the best fix also among other types. 

*** (!) Important note

     If have a broken link with of type # (magic char.), fixing with `f`, will 
     look for the best fix everywhere, since the magic char. matches with all 
     types.
     After the fix, the type of the link will still be the magic char. 

     However, if we fix with `F`, after the fix, the link type will be changed 
     to the type of the best match it found.

     Since the fixing algorithm is very powerful, we can take advantage of the 
     second feature to automatically construct links with less typing. 
