
Common Collections - Strings

___

* Storing UTF-8 Encodings
  Strings are somewhat complicated in Rust because of three factors: 
  - Rust exposes possible errors
  - Strings are a complicated data structure 
  - UTF-8

  Strings are part of a collection because they are implemented as a sequence 
  of bytes plus some methods to ensure appropriate functionality. 

* What is a String? 

  There are two types of strings: 
  - The string slice: `str` (most often seen as `&str`) which are references 
    to some UTF-8 encoded string data stored elsewhere. 
  - The `String` type: growable, mutable, owned, UTF-8 encoded. 

* Creating A New String

  Many of the operations on `Vec<T>` are available with `String` because 
  it is implemented as a wrapper around a vector of bytes with some additional 
  guarantees and functionality.

  So to create a new empty string, we can use `new()`.
  @code rust
  let mut s = String::new();
  @end

  To create a new string with some initial data, we can use `to_string()` method 
  which is available on any type that implements the `Display` trait, which 
  string literals do.

  @code rust
  let data = "initial contents";

  let s = data.to_string();

  // the method also works on a literal directly:
  let s = "initial contents".to_string();
  // we can also use String::from to create a String from a string literal
  let s = String::from("initial contents");

  @end
* Updating a String
  A `String` can grow in size just like `Vec<T>` if you push more data into it.
  You can also use the `+` operator or the `format!` macro to concatenate `String`
  values.
** Appending to a String with `push_str` and `push`

   The `push_str` method takes a string slice (so it doesnt take ownership) 
   while the `push` method takes a single character as a parameter and adds 
   it to `String`.
   @code rust
   let mut s1 = String::from("foo");
   let s2 = "bar";
   s1.push_str(s2);
   // s2 is still useable because push_str does not take ownership 
   println!("s2 is {s2}");
   // here we use push to add a single character to the string
   let mut s = String::from("lo");
   s.push('l');
   @end
** Concatenation with `+` and `format!` Macro
   If we want to combine two existing strings, we can use `+`.
   @code rust
   let s1 = String::from("Hello, ");
   let s2 = String::from("world!");
   // note s1 has been moved here and can no longer be used
   let s3 = s1 + &s2; 
   @end
   The reason `s1` is no longer valid after the addition and the reason we use 
   a reference to `s2` has to do with the signature of the method that is called 
   when we use `+`, which is `add`.
   @code rust
   // add is not defined exactly like this since it uses generics and associated 
   // types, but this gives the idea.
   fn add(self, s: &str) -> String { // ...
   @end
   As we can see, this method takes `&str` as the second parameter which explains
   why we use `&s2`. However, `s2` is `String` not `str`, so why does it work? 
   Because Rust uses /deref coercion/, which turns `&s2` into `&s2[..]`.

   We also see that add takes ownership of `self` since it does not have a `&`. 
   This means that `s1` becomes unusable after the addition.

   If we want to concatenate multiple strings in more complex manners, the `+` 
   operator can be cumbersome. Instead, it is more convenient to use `format!`
   which works likes `println!` but instead of printing the output, it returns 
   a `String` with the contents. Furthermore, `format!` does not take ownership 
   of any of the arguments.
   @code rust
   let s1 = String::from("tic");
   let s2 = String::from("tac");
   let s3 = String::from("toe");

   let s = format!("{s1}-{s2}-{s3}");
   @end

* Indexing into Strings

  Rust does not allow to easily index into strings because of UTF-8. 
  `String` is a wrapper around `Vec<u8>` and single characters in UTF-8 may 
  take more than 1 byte. So indexing into a certain position may give invalid
  results.

  If you really have to index a string, there are two possibilities:
  - slicing strings
  - iterating over strings


** Slicing Strings
  The first method consists of using a range to create a slice containing 
  particular bytes:
@code rust
  let hello = "Здравствуйте";

  let s = &hello[0..4];
  @end

  Here, s will be a &str that contains the first 4 bytes of the string. 
  Each of the characters is 2 bytes, which means s will be Зд
  If we were to try to slice only part of a character’s bytes with 
  something like &hello[0..1], Rust would panic at runtime in the same 
  way as if an invalid index were accessed in a vector.

  Use ranges to create string slices with caution since it could crash your 
  program.
** Iterating Over Strings
   To iterate over strings at individual Unicode scalar values, use `chars`.
   Calling `chars` on “Зд” separates out and returns two values of type char, 
   and you can iterate over the result to access each element:
@code rust
   for c in "Зд".chars() {
    println!("{c}");
}
   @end
