
Common Collections - Vectors

___

* Storing Lists of Values With Vectors

  The type `Vec<T>` allows us to store values of the same type in 
  contiguouos memory.

  To create a new empty vector we can use

@code rust
let v: Vec<i32> =  Vec::new();
@end
    Note that we have to add a type annotation here because we are not inserting 
  any data and the compiler needs to know all types at compile time. 
  Vectors are implemented using "generics" which are covered later. 

  However, most of the time, we create a vector that will hold values from 
  the beginning. In this case, we don't need annotations since the compiler 
  can infer the type. 
  Lastly, we can use the handy `vec!` macro which creates a vector that holds 
  the values we give it:
@code rust
let v = vec![1,2,3];
  @end

* Updating a Vector

   To create a vector and then add elements we can use the `push` method. 
@code rust
let mut v =  Vec::new();
v.push(5);
v.push(6);
   @end


* Reading Elements of Vectors
  To reference a value stored in a vector we can use 
  - indexing 
  - the `get` method.

@code rust
      let v = vec![1, 2, 3, 4, 5];

    let third: &i32 = &v[2];
    println!("The third element is {third}");

    let third: Option<&i32> = v.get(2);
    match third {
        Some(third) => println!("The third element is {third}"),
        None => println!("There is no third element."),
    }

  @end

  We can use `&` and `[]` to obtain a reference to the element at the index value. 
  On the other hand, the `get` method returns `Option<&T>` which indicates that 
  it will be `None` if there is no such element and `Some(&T)` if it exists. 
  Therefore, `get` will never panic.

  Rust provides these two methods so that we can choose what should happen when 
  we try to access a value outside the valid range. If we want the code to 
  panic, we use `[]` while if we don't want this, we use `get`.

  Of course, at all times, the borrow checker will ensure that any references 
  remain valid. 

  For example, the following code snippet won't compile
@code rust
  fn main() {
    let mut v = vec![1, 2, 3, 4, 5];

    let first = &v[0];

    v.push(6);

    println!("The first element is: {first}");
  }
  @end

  This violates the principle of the borrow checker because immutable and mutable 
  borrows cannot coexist. More specifically, the `push` method may invalidate 
  reference because it could reallocate the memory to make space for the 
  new value being pushed.

* Iterating Over Values in a Vector

  We can access each element of a vector using a `for` loop while creating *immutable*
  references to the elements in the vector:
@code rust
      let v = vec![100, 32, 57];
    for n_ref in &v {
        // n_ref has type &i32
        let n_plus_one: i32 = *n_ref + 1;
        println!("{n_plus_one}");
    }

  @end

  We can also iterate over mutable references to each element in a mutable vector
  in order to change all the elements. 
@code rust
      let mut v = vec![100, 32, 57];
    for n_ref in &mut v {
        // n_ref has type &mut i32
        *n_ref += 50;
    }
  @end


* Using Iterators

  We discuss iterators in more detail later. Broadly speaking, an iterator 
  contains a pointer to data within the vector. 
  This is illustrated by desugarizing a for-loop as follows:
  @code rust
  fn main() {
      use std::slice::Iter;  
      // create a vector
      let mut v: Vec<i32>         = vec![1, 2];
      // initialize iterator of the vector
      // this initially points to the first element 
      // so in this case it points to 1
      // also note that this takes an immutable borrow of *v
      let mut iter: Iter<'_, i32> = v.iter();
      // we use next method on an iterator which returns 
      // an option<&T> of the current element (in our case T = int32) 
      // and then moves the iterator to the next element.
      // to extract the item within the option we need to use unwrap.
      let n1: &i32                = iter.next().unwrap();
      let n2: &i32                = iter.next().unwrap();
      // after two calls to next, the iterator has gone over the entire 
      // length of the vector (len = 2) and a call to next will return 
      // an option of none.
      let end: Option<&i32>       = iter.next();
  }
  @end

  Since iterators borrow the vector, if we have to do in-place operations, it 
  is better to create an iterator over the indexes of the vector using a Range:
@code rust
  fn main() {
use std::ops::Range; 
let mut v: Vec<i32>        = vec![1, 2];
let mut iter: Range<usize> = 0 .. v.len();
let i1: usize              = iter.next().unwrap();
let n1: &i32               = &v[i1];
  }
  @end

