Generics create definitions for items which we can reuse with different 
concrete data types. Let's see how to define functions, structs, enums, and 
methods using generics. Then we discuss how generics affect code performance.

* In functions

  An example of the way to define a generic function over a type `T` is 
  shown below:
@code rust
fn my_function_name<T>(input1: T) -> T {
    //...
    // Of course, the inputs can be of type &T, or anything that uses the 
    // type T, for example, Vec<T>.
}
  @end
  If we have more than one generic type, we include it in `<>`, for example:
@code rust
fn my_function_name_2<T,A>(input1: T, input2: &A) -> T {
    //...
    // Of course, the inputs can be of type &T, or anything that uses the 
    // type T, for example, Vec<T>.
}
  @end
  We must be careful with the body of the function. Since we have a generic type, 
  the compiler cannot make any assumptions on the core properties of the type. 
  For example, if the body of the function involves a "comparison" between two 
  values whose type is assumed to be "number-like", the compiler will reject 
  this program. Why? Because the function is meant to work with *any* type, 
  therefore, I could call it with a `File` type, for which the comparison would 
  not make sense. To fix this, we have to restrict the behavior using `Traits`.

* In Structs and Enums

  We define structs using generics in a similar way:
@code rust
struct Point<T, U> {
    x: T,
    y: U,
}

fn main() {
    let both_integer = Point { x: 5, y: 10 };
    let both_float = Point { x: 1.0, y: 4.0 };
    let integer_and_float = Point { x: 5, y: 4.0 };
}
  @end
  Similarly, for enums, the `Result` enum is defined as follows:
@code rust
  enum Result<T, E> {
    Ok(T),
    Err(E),
}
  @end
  In other words, it is generic over two types.

* In method definitions

  We can also use generics when implementing methods for a generic type. 

  If we want to implement a generic method, the signature is:
@code rust
  impl<T> Point<T> 
  @end
  Note, we *need* to write `<T>` after the `impl` because this makes it clear 
  that we are defining a method for the generic `Point<T>`. Alternatively,
  we can also define methods for concrete types (such as `i32`) by writing:
@code rust
  impl Point<i32>
  @end
  In this case, we don't need the generic type `<T>` after the `impl`.

  Finally, we can also use *different* generic types in the method definition 
  itself! Look at the following example:
@code rust
  struct Point<X1, Y1> {
    x: X1,
    y: Y1,
}

impl<X1, Y1> Point<X1, Y1> {
    fn mixup<X2, Y2>(self, other: Point<X2, Y2>) -> Point<X1, Y2> {
        Point {
            x: self.x,
            y: other.y,
        }
    }
}

fn main() {
    let p1 = Point { x: 5, y: 10.4 };
    let p2 = Point { x: "Hello", y: 'c' };

    let p3 = p1.mixup(p2);

    println!("p3.x = {}, p3.y = {}", p3.x, p3.y);
  }
  @end
  The purpose of this example is to demonstrate a situation in which some 
  generic parameters are declared with `impl` and some are declared with the 
  method definition. Here, the generic parameters `X1` and `Y1` are declared after 
  `impl` because they go with the struct definition. The generic parameters 
  `X2` and `Y2` are declared after `fn mixup`, because they’re only relevant to the 
  method.

* Performance of Generics
  Long story short, _we pay no performance_ for using generics because the 
  compiler creates at compile time all the concrete instances of the types we 
  use (of course, we pay in compilation time).
  In other words, it does the opposite of what we do when we use generics to 
  refactor code and avoid duplication. 














    

