Understanding Ownership 
___
* What Is Ownership?

  Ownership is a discipline for ensuring the safety of Rust programs. 

  What is safety? 
  - The absence of undefined behavior

  The primary goal of Rust is to ensure that programs never have undefined 
  behavior. 
  A secondary goal is to prevent undefined behavior at /compile-time/ rather 
  that at /run-time/. The purpose of this is twofold: 
  - Catching bugs at compile-time means avoiding them in production, improving 
    the reliability of your software. 
  - Catching bugs at compile-time means fewer run-time checks which improve the 
    performance of the code.

  Since ownership is about safety and safety is about preventing undefined 
  behavior, we need to understand ownership in the context of preventing 
  undefined behavior. 

  We concentrate on one type of undefined behavior: operations on memory. 

  Rust does not think about memory as an array of bytes, and it provides 
  a very particular way to think about memory. Ownership is a
  discipline to safely handle memory in this way of thinking.

** The Rust Model Of Memory

   Local variables live in _stack frames_. As we know, the stack grows downwards,
   towards lower addresses. Once a function goes out of scope, its associated 
   stack frame is *freed/dropped/deallocated*.

   Since the stack is reserved for small local variables, if we need to 
   deal with larger variables, we use the _heap_. Rust uses pointers 
   which point to memory regions in the heap.

   _Rust provides a construct called `Box` for putting data on the heap._

   When we copy boxes (i.e. data in the heap), we only copy the pointer. 
   In other words: 
   @code rust
   // we allocate an array of zeros of length 1 million in the heap
   // a is a pointer to that memory region.
   let a = Box::new([0; 1_000_000]);
   // We copy the address! Not the whole array. This corresponds to a 
   // shallow copy. 
   let b = a;

   // So throughout this program, we only have one array of 1 million 
   // elements.
   @end

   In the above example, at the end of the program, we cannot access the 
   array through `a` because it has been _moved_ - as we will explain 
   shortly.

   *_Rust does not allow manual memory management_*. Stack frames are 
   automatically managed by Rust. When a function goes out of scope, 
   Rust deallocates the stack frame immediately. 

   But what about the heap? Imagine if Rust had a `free()` function 
   that allowed manual deallocation. This manual memory management 
   can easily lead to bugs, for example, we could try to read a pointer 
   to a region that has been freed, or we could try to free a memory 
   region more than once.

   To avoid this, Rust does not allow manual memory deallocation. 

   Instead, Rust /automatically/ frees a box's heap memory. 

   $ Box deallocation principle (almost correct)
   If a variable is bound to a box, when Rust deallocates the 
   variable's stack frame, then Rust deallocates the box's heap 
   memory.

   This is almost correct. However, what happens if more than one 
   variable is bound to a box as the previous code snippet? In this 
   case, with the /almost/ correct principle, we would try to free 
   memory twice, which is also undefined behavior.

   To avoid this, we arrive at _*ownership*_. 

** Ownership

   When we write:
   @code rust 
   let a = Box::new([0;1_000_000]);
   @end

   We say that `a` *_owns_* the box. Then, the statement `let b = a;` 
   *_moves_* ownership from `a` to `b`. 

   With these concepts, the fully correct version is: 

   $ Box deallocation principle (fully correct)
   If a variable owns a box, when Rust deallocates the variable's 
   stack frame, then Rust deallocates the box's heap memory. 

   Let's look at an example:

   @code rust
   fn main() {
       // first owns the heap that is allocated for the string
       let first = String::from("Ferris");
       // calling add_suffix
       let full = add_suffix(first);
       // after calling the add suffix, we pass ownership to full 
       // and then the stack of add suffix is deallocated.
        
       println!("{full}");
   }

   fn add_suffix(mut name: String) -> String {
       // here ownership has been moved from first to name

       // this function allocates a new box, copies old contents, 
       // adds the "jr" and then deallocates old box. So now, 
       // first points to invalid memory, while name owns the new 
       // mem region.
       name.push_str(" Jr.");

       name
   }
   @end

   What happens if we try to access `first` after it points to invalid 
   memory? Undefined behavior!

   To avoid this, rust imposes another rule:

   $ Moved heap data principle
   If a variable x moves ownership of heap data to another variable 
   y, then x cannot be used after the move.

   So we cannot use `first` after it has been moved! 
   If we tried doing it, we would get an error saying that we try to 
   *borrow* a value after it has been moved. 

   If we wanted to avoid moving data, we could *clone* it using the 
   `.clone()` method.

   @code rust
   fn main() {
       let first = String::from("Ferris");
       // this does a deep copy of first
       let first_clone = first.clone();
       // so now, we have two copies in heap of the same string

       // after the call to add_suffix on first_clone, 
       // first_clone will point to invalid data (as first did in 
       // the previous example). However, first is unchanged and 
       // safe to use
       let full = add_suffix(first_clone);
       println!("{full}, originally {first}");
   }

   fn add_suffix(mut name: String) -> String {
       name.push_str(" Jr.");
       name
   }
   @end

   In summary, ownership is primarily a discipline of heap management. More 
   generally, it is about _pointer management_, which we will see when we
   discuss how to create pointers in places other than the heap.
   The main ideas of ownership so far are:

   - All heap data must be owned by exactly one variable.
   - Rust deallocates heap data once its owner goes out of scope.
   - Ownership can be transferred by moves, which happen on assignments
     and function calls.
   - Heap data can only be accessed through its current owner, not a 
     previous owner.

* References and Borrowing

  Ownership, boxes, and moves provide a way to safely program 
  with the heap. However, move-only APIs can be inconvenient to use. 
  For example, suppose we want to read a string twice:
  @code rust 
  fn main() {
      let m1 = String::from("Hello");
      let m2 = String::from("world");
      greet(m1, m2);
      let s = format!("{} {}", m1, m2); // Error: m1 and m2 are moved
  }

  fn greet(g1: String, g2: String) {
      println!("{} {}!", g1, g2);
  }
  @end

  We could return ownership back to the main stack by returning a tuple, 
  however, this makes the code quite verbose. 

  Rust provides a way to achieve this. 

** References are Non-Owning Pointers

   References allow us to /borrow/ values by creating non-owning references 
   to it. 
   Below we can see an example program that reads the strings twice using 
   references: 

   @code rust 
   fn main() {
       let m1 = String::from("Hello");
       let m2 = String::from("world");
       // note the ampersands to create a reference
       greet(&m1, &m2); 
       let s = format!("{} {}", m1, m2);
   }
   // note the ampersands to create a reference
   fn greet(g1: &String, g2: &String) { 
       println!("{} {}!", g1, g2);
   }
   @end 

   In this example we use references, which are created with `&`. 
   By writing `&m1` we are passing a reference to `m1` into the 
   function `greet` which we call `g1`. 

   Therefore, `g1` is a reference that points to `m1`. To go from
   `g1` to the memory in heap we need to do two jumps, one from 
   `g1` to `m1` and then from `m1` to the heap string.

   Note that `m1` owns the heap data `Hello`, while `g1` does not 
   own either `m1` or `Hello`. So after `greet` ends, no heap data 
   is dropped and only the stack frame for `greet` disappears.

** Dereferencing a Pointer Accesses its Data

   In Rust, we use the *dereference* operator to "follow" pointers. 
   Below we have a few examples of dereferencing. 
   Note the difference between `r1` and `r2`. 
   @code rust
   let mut x: Box<i32> = Box::new(1);
   let a: i32 = *x;         // *x reads the heap value, so a = 1
   *x += 1;                 // *x on the left-side modifies the heap value,
   //     so x points to the value 2

   let r1: &Box<i32> = &x;  // r1 points to x on the stack
   let b: i32 = **r1;       // two dereferences get us to the heap value

   let r2: &i32 = &*x;      // r2 points to the heap value directly
   let c: i32 = *r2;
   @end

   However, we rarely see the dereference operator in Rust programs. 
   This is because Rust implicitly inserts dereferences and references 
   in certain cases, such as calling a method with the dot operator. 
   In this way, our code is cleaner. 

   @code rust 
   let x: Box<i32> = Box::new(-1);
   let x_abs1 = i32::abs(*x); // explicit dereference
   let x_abs2 = x.abs();      // implicit dereference
   assert_eq!(x_abs1, x_abs2);

   let r: &Box<i32> = &x;
   let r_abs1 = i32::abs(**r); // explicit dereference (twice)
   let r_abs2 = r.abs();       // implicit dereference (twice)
   assert_eq!(r_abs1, r_abs2);

   let s = String::from("Hello");
   // note that in this case, we need a reference because 
   // otherwise ownership is moved to the function and 
   // we cannot access s anymore. 
   let s_len1 = str::len(&s); // explicit reference
   let s_len2 = s.len();      // implicit reference
   assert_eq!(s_len1, s_len2);
   @end

** Rust Avoids Simultaneous Aliasing and Mutation

   Pointers allow *aliasing*: when two variables point to the same memory 
   region. When aliasing is combined with *mutation*, we have a recipe 
   for disaster: 
   - Deallocating the aliased data, leaving the other one to point to 
     freed memory. 
   - Mutating the aliased data, invalidating runtime properties expected 
     of the other variable.
   - Concurrently mutating the aliased data, causing a race condition.

   The example we analyze uses the vector data structure `Vec` which 
   is an array that can dynamically grow in size. This is done with 
   the `Vec::push` method, which can dynamically reallocate the array 
   to fit more elements if we exceed the *capacity* of the vector.

   Suppose that we try to do the following: 
   @code rust 
   let mut v: Vec<i32> = vec![1, 2, 3];
   let num: &i32 = &v[2];
   v.push(4);
   println!("Third element is {}", *num);
   @end

   By doing `v.push(4)`, the array could be dynamically reallocated to 
   enlarge its capacity. However, this means that the reference `num`
   is left pointing to invalid data. This is unsafe. 

   The origin of this unsafety is that we are both *aliasing*
   the vector (through the reference `num`) as well as *mutating* 
   it (through the `v.push(4)` operation). 

   To avoid these kinds of issues, Rust follows a basic principle: 

   $ Pointer Safety Principle
   Data should never be aliased and mutated at the same time

   Rust enforces this principle for owned pointers by disallowing
   aliasing since assigning a box from one variable to another 
   will move ownership, invalidating the use of the previous variable.

   However, since references by design create temporary aliases and 
   are non-owning pointers, they need to be treated 
   differently to ensure the /Pointer Safety Principle/.
   This is done through the *_borrow checker_*.

** The Borrow Checker

   The main idea behind the borrow checker is that variables have 
   three kinds of *permissions* on their data. 
   - *Read(R)*: data can be copied to another location. 
   - *Write(W)*: data can be mutated in-place. 
   - *Own(O)*: data can be moved or dropped.

   These permissions don't exist at runtime, only within the compiler. 
   They describe how the compiler *thinks* about your program before 
   it is executed. 

   By default, a variable has R/O permissions on its data. 
   If it is annotated with `mut` it also has W permission. 

   The key idea is that
   *_references can temporarily remove these permissions_*

   Lets look at a safe example of the previous snippet:
   @code rust
   fn main() {
       let mut v: Vec<i32> = vec![1, 2, 3];
       let num: &i32 = &v[2];
       println!("Third element is {}", *num);
       v.push(4);
   }
   @end

   ~ After `let mut v = (...)`, the variable `v` has been initialized. 
     It gains *RWO* permissions
   ~ After `let num = &v[2]`, the data in `v` has been *borrowed* by `num` 
     Three things happen:
   ~~ The borrow removes *WO* permissions from `v`. `v` cannot be written 
      or owned, but can still be read. This also means we can't pass 
      ownership of `v` to another variable. 
   ~~ The variable `num` has gained *RO* permissions. `num` is not 
      writable (it is missing W permissions) because it was 
      not marked `let mut`.
   ~~ The path `\*num` has gained the *R* permission.
   ~ After `println!(...)`, then `num` is no longer in use, so `v` 
     is no longer borrowed. Therefore:
   ~~ `v` regains its *WO* permissions.
   ~~ `num` and `\*num` have lost all of their permissions 
   ~ After `v.push(4)`, then `v` is no longer in use, and it loses all
     of its permissions.

   Why do we see `num` and `\*num`? Because it's different to access 
   data through a reference, versus to manipulate the reference 
   itself. 
   Let's look at the following example that showcases this:
   @code rust 
   fn main() {
       let x = 0;
       let mut x_ref = &x;
       println!("{x_ref} {x}");
   }
   @end
   `x_ref` has the *W* permission, while `\*x_ref` does not. This 
   means we can assign `x_ref` to a different reference, i.e. 
   `x_ref = &y` but we cannot mutate the pointed data, i.e 
   `\*x_ref += 1`.

   More generally, _permissions are defined on *paths*_ and not 
   just variables. Paths are anything you can put on the left 
   side of an assignment. 
   They can be: 
   - Variables, like `a`.
   - Dereferences of paths, like `\*a`.
   - Fields of paths, like `a.0` for tuples or `a.field` for 
     structs (discussed later).
   - Any combination of the above.

** The Borrow Checker Finds Permission Violations

   By the /Pointer Safety Principle/ data should not be aliased 
   and mutated at the same time. 
   The goal of these permissions is to ensure that this doesn't 
   happen. 
   Creating a reference to data i.e *borrowing* it, causes that 
   data to be temporarily read-only until the reference is no longer 
   used. 

   Rust uses the *_borrow checker_* to check for potentially unsafe 
   operations involving references. Any time a path is used, Rust 
   checks that it has the appropriate permissions for the operation 
   that needs to be done. 

   Lets look at the unsafe snippet:

   @code rust 
   fn main() {
       let mut v: Vec<i32> = vec![1, 2, 3];
       let num: &i32 = &v[2];
       v.push(4);
       println!("Third element is {}", *num);
   }
   @end

   For example, the borrow `&v[2]` requires `v` to have *R* permissions.
   `v.push(4)` requires `v` to have *RW* permissions since it needs 
   to read and possibly reallocate data to enlarge the capacity. 
   However, in this case, `v` does not have *W* permissions, since 
   it has been borrowed. Therefore, Rust will not compile this code 
   and we will see an error related to immutable borrowing. 

   Let's also shed some light on the *O* permission. Obviously, *O* 
   permission is needed to drop data in the heap, so if we have a 
   reference, we cannot manually drop anything since it could 
   invalidate the reference. 

   However, we also need *O* permissions to *move* the data. 
   Imagine the following scenario: 
   @code rust 
   let mut v: Vec<i32> = vec![1, 2, 3];
   let v2 = &v;
   let v3 = *v2;
   @end
   If this program was allowed to compile, it would be unsafe since 
   at the end we would have two owners of the heap data which would 
   cause a double free. 
   For this reason, to *move* data, as in line 3, we need *O* permissions, 
   which `v2` does not have. Hence this code will not compile.


** Mutable References Provide Unique and Non-Owning Access to Data

   So far, we have only seen read-only *immutable references*. 
   *_Immutable references permit aliasing but disallow mutation._*

   We can also use *mutable references* which allow mutation. Let's 
   see how it works.

   The syntax is shown below:
   @code rust 
   fn main() {
       let mut v: Vec<i32> = vec![1, 2, 3];
       let num: &mut i32 = &mut v[2];
       *num += 1;
       println!("Third element is {}", *num);
       println!("Vector is now {:?}", v);
   }
   @end

   A *mutable reference* is created with `&mut` operator. 
   The type of `num` is written as `&mut i32`. Compared to 
   *immutable references*, we note two important differences: 
   ~ When `num` was an *immutable reference*, `v` still had *R* 
     permissions. Now, when `num` is a *mutable reference*, 
     `v` has lost /all/ permissions while `num` is in use. 
   ~ When `num` was an *immutable reference*, the path `\*num` only 
     had the *R* permissions. Now that `num` is a *mutable reference*, 
     `\*num` has also gained the *W* permission. 

   The first observation is what makes *mutable references* safe.  
   _*Mutable references allow mutation but prevent aliasing.*_
   The borrowed path `v` becomes temporarily unusable, so effectively 
   not an alias. 

   The second observation is what makes *mutable references* /useful/ 
   because we can modify `v` through `\*num`. 

   Notice the difference between having *W* permissions for 
   `num` and for `\*num`. In the first case, it means we can 
   assign `num` to be a reference to something else. In the second 
   case, it means we can change that the reference points to. 

   To have *W* permissions for `num`, we need simply to write 
   `let mut num = &v[2]`. To have *W* permissions for `\*num`
   we need to make `num` a *mutable reference*.

   *_Mutable references can also be temporarily downgraded to read-only 
   references_*

   Lets look at the following snippet:
   @code rust 
   fn main() {
       let mut v: Vec<i32> = vec![1, 2, 3];
       let num: &mut i32 = &mut v[2];
       // the borrow &*num removes write permissions from num 
       // but not read permissions. 
       let num2: &i32 = &*num;
       // so both *num and *num2 are R only
       println!("{} {}", *num, *num2);
   }
   @end

   Finally, we note that permissions are changed while the reference 
   is in use. They are returned at the end of a 
   reference's *lifetime* - the range of code from the birth of 
   the reference to its death.

   When we have control flow the lifetime of a reference can be 
   different inside the different branches.

** Data Must Outlive All Of Its References

   The borrow checker enforces that *_data must outlive any references to it_*.
   Rust enforces this property in two ways: 
   - References that are created and dropped within the scope of a 
     single function. 
     For example, the following code doesn't compile:

   @code rust 
   fn main() {
       let s = String::from("Hello world");
       let s_ref = &s;
       // since we still use s_ref later, we can't drop s. 
       // this violates the principle by which data must outlive 
       // all references to it.
       drop(s);
       println!("{}", s_ref);
   }
   @end

   Rust catches these errors by checking the *O* permission.
   However, in this example, Rust knows the lifetime of the reference. 
   This is harder to do when a reference is an input or output of a 
   function. 
   For this, Rust needs a different mechanism.

   - References that are input or output of a function.
     Whenever an expression uses an input reference or returns an output 
     reference, Rust checks the *_Flow_* (*F*) permission.
     Unlike *RWO* permissions, *F* does not change throughout the body 
     of a function. 
     A reference has *F* permission if it is allows to be used. 

   Suppose we have a function which takes a string and a default string. 
   If the string is not empty, it returns a reference to the first element, 
   otherwise it returns the default string. 
   This is shown below:
   @code rust 
   fn first_or(strings: &Vec<String>, default: &String) -> &String {
       if strings.len() > 0 {
           &strings[0]
       } else {
           default
       }
   }
   @end
   If we try to compile this function, Rust will complain about missing 
   lifetime specifiers. The error says that Rust cannot understand whether 
   the function returns a reference to `strings` or `default`. To understand 
   why this could be a problem, imagine we had this code:
   @code rust 
   fn main() {
       let strings = vec![];
       let default = String::from("default");
       // since the string is empty, we return a reference 
       // to default
       let s = first_or(&strings, &default);
       // if we drop default, we invalidate s
       drop(default);
       println!("{}", s);
   }
   @end
   Rust would only allow this program to compile if it was certain 
   that the function cannot return a reference to `default`.
   In this case, we would say that `default` cannot *flow* into 
   the return value.

   To specify whether `default` can be returned, Rust uses a mechanism 
   called /lifetime parameters/ which we will discuss later. 

   To summarize: 
   ~ Input/Output references are treated differently than references 
     withing a function body. 
   ~ Rust uses the *F* permission to check the safety of these references.

   Another unsafe example is a function that returns a reference to a stack 
   variable. This is unsafe because as soon as the function goes out of scope, 
   the stack is deallocated and the reference will be invalidated. 
   Rust does not allow this code to compile because it is missing *F* 
   permissions.
   @code rust 
   fn return_a_string() -> &String {
       let s = String::from("Hello world");
       let s_ref = &s;
       s_ref
   }
   @end

* Fixing Ownership Errors
  Learning to fix an ownership error is a core Rust skill. 

  The first thing we must do is understand if our program is safe or not. 
  Remember that Rust will reject *all* unsafe programs, but also *some* 
  safe ones. 

  Lets look at some unsafe examples that are rejected and see how to fix them. 

** Fixing an Unsafe Program: Returning a Reference to the Stack
   The first case is the following: 

   @code rust 
   fn return_a_string() -> &String {
   let s = String::from("Hello world");
   &s
   }
   @end
   Is this code safe? 

   No! Because as soon as the function scope ends, the stack gets deallocated.
   Since `s` owns the string, the string will be dropped and the reference `&s`
   will be invalidated. 

   How can we fix it? 
   There are a two solutions: 

   - Take ownership of the string:
   @code rust 
   fn return_a_string() -> String {
    let s = String::from("Hello world");
    s
   }
   @end

   - Return a string literal which lives forever (indicated by `\'static`):
   @code rust 
   fn return_a_string() -> &'static str {
   "Hello world"    
   }
   @end

** Fixing an Unsafe Program: Not Enough Permissions
   Another common issue is trying to mutate read-only data or trying to 
   drop data behind a reference.

   For example: 
   @code rust 
   fn stringify_name_with_title(name: &Vec<String>) -> String {
   name.push(String::from("Esq."));
   let full = name.join(" ");
   full
   }

   // ideally: ["Ferris", "Jr."] => "Ferris Jr. Esq."
   @end
   This program doesn't compile because `name.push()` requires *W* 
   permissions, which it doesn't have. This is a good thing, because 
   this operation could invalidate references outside of the 
   function. 

   To fix this, there are various solutions.
   ~ Pass a mutable reference to the function.
   -- This is not a good solution because a function should not mutate 
      inputs if the caller would not expect it.
   ~ Take ownership of the name. 
   -- This is not a good solution because it would make the data structure 
      outside of the function unusable.
   ~ Clone the input so we can act on it freely.

** Fixing an Unsafe Program: Copying vs. Moving Out of a Collection
   A common confusion for Rust learners happens when copying data out of 
   a collection, like a vector. 
   For example:

   @code rust
   fn main() {
   let v: Vec<i32> = vec![0, 1, 2];
   let n_ref: &i32 = &v[0];
   let n: i32 = *n_ref;
   }
   @end
   The dereference operator `\*n_ref` expects just the *R* permission, 
   which the path `\*n_ref` has.
   But what happens if we change the type from `i32` to `String`?
   Then, it turns out we no longer have the right permissions.
   @code rust 
   fn main() {
   let v: Vec<String> = 
   vec![String::from("Hello world")];
   let s_ref: &String = &v[0];
   let s: String = *s_ref;
   }
   @end
   This program does not compile. Why? Because `v` owns the string and 
   references are non-owning pointers, so we cannot take ownership 
   from it. 
   This is unsafe because if it was allowed, we would have a *double free* 
   which is a bug.

   This behavior does not happen when the vector has `i32` elements. 
   The difference is that `String` does not implement the Copy Trait, 
   and so when we do an assignment, we do a *move*.
   On the other hand, `i32` implements the Copy Trait so the data 
   simply gets copied into another local variable. 
   In general, *if a value does not own heap data, then it can be copied without a move.*
   For example: 
   - `i32` does not own heap data so it can be copied without a move
   - `String` does own heap data so it cannot be copied without a move 
   - `&String` does own heap data so it cannot be copied without a move 

   One exception is *mutable references*, since for *any* data type, 
   we cannot have two of them overlap at the same time.

** Fixing a Safe Program: Mutating Different Tuple Fields
   One common issue of Rust is that it keeps track of permissions at 
   a fine-grained level. This may cause it to reject safe programs.
   Let's first look at a snippet that passes the borrow checker:

   @code rust 
   fn main() {
   let mut name = (
   String::from("Ferris"), 
   String::from("Rustacean")
   );
   let first = &name.0;
   name.1.push_str(", Esq.");
   println!("{first} {}", name.1);
   }
   @end
   The statement `let first = &name.0` borrows `name.0`. This removes 
   *WO* permissions from `name.0` and from `name`.
   However, `name.1` still has *W* permissions, so doing `name.1.push_str()` 
   is valid.

   However, Rust lose track of this. Suppose that we try to do the same thing 
   through a function:
   @code rust 
   fn get_first(name: &(String, String)) -> &String {
   &name.0
   }

   fn main() {
   let mut name = (
   String::from("Ferris"), 
   String::from("Rustacean")
   );
   let first = get_first(&name);
   name.1.push_str(", Esq.");
   println!("{first} {}", name.1);
   }
   @end
   Now, `name.1.push_str()` will cause a compilation error. To understand 
   this error, we have to remember that Rust only looks at the function 
   signature and not the implementation. Therefore, Rust cannot 
   understand from the function signature that we are only borrowing 
   the first element of the tuple, so it removes permissions from both 
   elements.
   In the future, this program may compile, but for now, it doesn't.

** Fixing a Safe Program: Mutating Different Array Elements
   A similar problem arises when we borrow elements of an array. 
   @code rust 
   fn main() {
   let mut a = [0, 1, 2, 3];
   let x = &mut a[0];
   *x += 1;
   println!("{a:?}");
   }
   @end
   In this case, the Borrow Checker does not contain different paths 
   for `a[0]`, `a[1]`, etc. It uses a *single* path `a[_]` that represents 
   /all/ indexes of `a`.
   This is different from tuples because tuples are accessed through named
   fields. On the other hand, an index may be created at runtime, so Rust 
   does not know how to deal with it at compile time. This is why it treats 
   arrays differently and has a single path for all indexes.

   So the following program will give be rejected by the compiler because 
   Rust already gave *R* permissions to `x`.
   @code rust 
   fn main() {
   let mut a = [0, 1, 2, 3];
   let x = &mut a[0];
   let y = &a[1];
   *x += *y;
   }
   @end

   For cases like this, Rust has some implementations that allow for *unsafe* 
   code blocks that bypass the borrow checker. We will see this later.

** The Slice Type

   /Slices/ let you reference a contiguous sequence of elements 
   in a collection rather than the whole collection. 
   *_A slice is a kind of reference, so it is a non-owning pointer._*



** Ownership Recap
