
How To Run Tests In Rust

_____

`cargo test` is the command used to run all tests in rust. The default behavior 
is to run all tests in parallel and to capture all the output to make the 
results easier to read.

We can feed some command line options to `cargo test` and others to the testing 
binary. The command line options for `cargo test` are specified right after it. The 
command line options for the binary are specified after `--`.
Ex: 
- `cargo test --help` : lists the help menu for `cargo test`.
- `cargo test -- --help`: lists the help menu for the test binary.

* Running Tests In Parallel Or Consecutively

  Since by default, the tests are run in parallel, we have to make sure the tests
  do not depend on each other or have race conditions.
  We can specify the number of threads to run the tests by using the 
  `--test-threads` flag.

  Ex: 
  - `cargo test -- --test-threads=1`: Run the tests in serial.

* Showing Output

  By default, all output is captured. If we want to see it, we use the 
  `--show-output` flag:
  Ex: 
  - `cargo test -- --show-output`

* Running A Subset of Tests By Name

** Running a Single Test

   We can specify the name of the test we want to run to cargo. 
   Ex: 
   - `cargo test add_two`: Run the `add_two` test.
     The output will show the remaining tests in the `filtered` category.
    
** Filtering to Run Multiple Tests

   If we specify part of a test name, `cargo` will run all tests that contain 
   that substring in the test name.
   Ex: 
   - `cargo test add` : run all tests that contain the string `add`.

** Ignoring Some Tests Unless Specifically Requested
   We can add the `#[ignore]` attribute to a test that is particularly expensive
   or that we want to ignore for some reason.
   If we run `cargo test` this will show in the `ignored` section.

   If we want to run the *ignored* tests, we use the `--ignored` flag. If we 
   want to run the *entire* test suite, we have to use the `include-ignored` 
   flag.
   Ex: 
   - `cargo test -- --ignored`: run *only* ignored tests.
   - `cargo test -- --include-ignored`: run *all* tests.

